Hi. My name is Jonathon Wilson on behalf of
Expert Village. com. We're learning how to
play an advanced funk groove on the piano.
The last time, we learned a pretty challenging
right hand lick for solos and we had to actually
reach up with our left hand to get some help.
This time, we'll make things a little bit
easier. Again, we're going to borrow a chapter
from blues piano and use something called
a rolling blues chord. You hear this a million
times. It's something where the blues player
will play a chord in his right hand and then
roll down the notes of that chord kind of
loosely on the way into another solo pattern
that happens next. It works great; it's a
really classic blues sound that happens to
also work very well in a funk context as you'll
hear here. The way I like to do it, I've got
one particular example where when you go up
to that F-7 chord in our groove, you'll roll
an F-9 in your right hand and then do this
little kind of a chord pattern that I've got
written out. Now let's do this really slowly
with the metronome so you can hear what I'm
talking about. Okay? Nothing to it. This is
a lot easier than the last one. But very useful.
In general, this kind of a rolling chord is
something you should work out. Almost any
chord you can play, you can also roll down.
It adds a little bit of a lilt or for lack
of a better word, you know, it just sort of
breaks things up and it adds this sort of,
"hmmm, that was kind of cool." That people
will kind of just go, "oh, what was that?"
And you can throw those in almost anywhere.
It's a good pattern to learn. To keep in mind,
you want your rolling to be very subtle and
relaxed. You shouldn't hear the notes of the
roll itself, as much as just this sort of
a rolling that happens. And again, a lot of
that can be done with the way you kind of
work your hand. Everything should be very
relaxed. You don't want stiff fingers when
you play those chords. It's not a finger move
at all. You play the chord and then just sort
of, sort of flick your fingers back through
those same chords again. Okay? So let's hear
that same pattern that we just heard up to
speed with the bass and the drum. Okay, pretty
cool, I like that one. It's a good one to
throw in. The main reason I wanted to show
it to you is so that you could go off and
learn some other variations on this. Almost
any chord that you can play, you can roll
and then turn into this kind of a classic
blues lick. It works blues, it works in funk,
it works in rock. Anywhere you need this kind
of a flashy little lick, it's a good one to
throw in.